hi and welcome to my shoe tutorial after
having shown you how to make a four
strand braid I'm now showing you how to
turn that braid into a shoe so this is
the little booklet that I'm so proud of
and so happy that I found it it's
falling apart I'm trying to take good
care of it there are different ways of
making soles in this booklet we are
doing this one right here where you sew
the braid to the shoe sole and it
actually shows what stitch they use
which is a blanket stitch so I'm going
to show you the setup I have a big piece
of styrofoam here that I had at home
these are two soles that I have sewn
together with a blanket stitch actually
they say I should be using it all I
don't have an awl yet of course I've
ordered one but I couldn't wait until it
gets here to start this so I use the
blanket stitch oh yes you could use a
zig zag or an overlock but moreover the
fun right so this is what I'm starting
with this is a wool fabric they say to
use felt or even rough kind of a linen
or you know something woven would be
fine too so then I have my braid my
braids that I made the four strand
braids they have a flat a flatter side
and a not so flat side you want to lie
it down with a flatter side and I
started on the outside while in the
booklet they actually seem to start on
the inside and go out they also by the
way have much wider stance
I mean braids so I think I could have
used thicker twine so I started here and
went all the way around several times
making smaller circles here I'm leaving
this open so far I will come back and
fill it and then actually make a little
bit of a heel too there's also technique
where you can use the braids standing up
on the on the narrow side excuse me of
the braid you kind of roll up the bright
then you know and it will become a much
thicker sole but you will also need a
lot more braids for that and I think I'm
going to save that technique for when I
have a bigger thicker twine so then I've
pinned it in this shape to my soul and I
push the pins all the way in because
otherwise my thread will get caught in
it which will be really annoying and I'm
now not sewing the braids to the sole
yet I'm just sewing the braid to the
braid to make the shape of the sole you
also use a blanket stitch for that so
you take the outer loop of one braid and
the outer loop of the right next to it
and then you go over the thread you pull
it through I'm going to have to zoom in
a little bit so you can see this better
there you go so so you take the outer
loop of this braid and the outer loop of
the other braid you go over like this
over your string
and you pull it tight I'll do that again
I'm using a really pointy needle I think
maybe you could also use a ballpoint I'm
not quite sure I just happened to use
this one and it's working really well I
am also using it's an embroidery yarn
that I'm using which proves to be really
really perfect I don't know what the
right term is but this is not loosely
twisted it's um it could be s twisted or
like four ply or something but it's
something that doesn't easily come
undone I had to really work it to get it
undone even just like this so that is
good because otherwise I think going
through this rough braid it would just
get you know it would be in pieces plus
we're going to be walking on these souls
and we don't want any you know rough
wood floors or something to just rip
this right apart so this is very durable
little embroidery thread which I was
lucky enough to have at home so I'll
make a few more stitches to show you but
I think you already figured it out
probably sometimes you will have to skip
one loop or use one loop twice just that
is how you know the curves in the braids
happen so that's why you pinned it first
to get it into the right shape of the
sole so you just keep going that's
really all it is
all right I'll be up next what I like
the heel and when I sew the braid so to
the other soul bye-bye